.TH _PRINTF 3 "2025-11-26" "Custom C Library" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
_printf \- custom implementation of the standard printf function

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "main.h"
.bf
.B #include<stdarg.h>
.br
.B #include<unistd.h>
.PP
.BI "int _printf(const char *" format ", ...);"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B _printf()
produces output according to the format string
.I format
and the additional arguments provided.
It writes the result to the standard output(file descriptor 1) using
.BR write(2) .

.PP
The
.I format
string may contain ordinary characters, wich are printed as-is, and
conversion specifiers introduced by the percent character(%).

.PP This implementation supports the following conversion specifiers :

.TP
.B %c 
Prints a single character.
The corresponding argument must be an
.I int
whose value is converted to an unsigned char.

.TP
.B %s 
Prints a null-terminated string.
The corresponding argument must be a
.I char *
pointer.
If the pointer is
.B NULL,
the literal string "(null)" is printed.

.TP
.B %d 
Prints a signed decimal integer.
The argument must be an
.I int
value.

.TP.B %i
Same as %d.

TP.B %%
Prints a literral percent character(%).
No argument is consumed.

.PP
If an unknow format specifier is encountered, the percent
character and the unknown character are printed verbatim.

.PP
If
.I format
is
.B NULL,
the function returns -1.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.B _printf()
returns the total number of character printed.

.PP
If an error occurs, such as a
.B NULL
format string or a trailing percent sign at the end of the format,
.B _printf()
returns -1.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
_printf("Let's try to printf a simple sentence.\n");
.fi

Prints :

.nf
Let's try to printf a simple sentence.
.fi

.nf
_printf("Negative: [%d]\n", -762534);
.fi

Prints :

.nf
Negative : [-762534]
.fi

.SH NOTES
This function is a simplified implementation of
.B printf(3)
function.

.PP
All output is performed using
.BR write(2)
and the standard buffering of
.B stdio.

.SH SEE ALSO
printf(3),
write(2)

.SH AUTHORS
Custom implementation by Aïny OURZIK and Lucas Nevano.
